COMPUTER SCIENCE
CLASS XII (2017-18)
UNIT 5: COMMUNICATION AND NETWORK CONCCEPT
Page 1 of 14
Network: A computer network is a set of computers connected together for
the purpose of sharing resources. Each computer on the network is called a
node.
Advantages for Networking
1. Resource sharing – All programs, data and peripherals are available to
everyone irrespective of the location of the resource and the user.
2. Reliability – Backup copy of a file is kept on different machines, which is
available in case of hardware crash or any other problem.
3. Cost factor –Cost is reduced since the resources can be shared
4. Communication Medium - Changes done by a user on a shared resource are conveyed to all.
Disadvantages of Networking
1. Threat to data: A computer network may be used by unauthorized users to steal or corrupt the data and
even to deploy computer virus or worms on the network.
2. Difficult to set up:
Evolution of Networking:
ARPANET (Advanced Research Projects Agency NETwork): In 1969, The US govt. formed an agency named
ARPANET to connect computers at various universities and defense agencies. The main objective of ARPANET
was to develop a network that could continue to function efficiently even in the event of a nuclear attack.
Internet (INTERconnection NETwork): The Internet is a worldwide network of computer networks. It is not
owned by anybody.
Interspace: is a client/server software program that allows multiple users to communicate online with real –
time audio, video and text chat in dynamic 3D environments.
SwitchingTechniques: Switching techniques are used for transmitting data across networks. Different ways of
sending data across the network are:
Circuit Switching:
 First the complete end-to-end
transmission path is
established between the
source and the destination
computers.
 Then the message is
transmitted through the path.
 The main advantage of this
technique is guaranteed
delivery of the message.
 Mostly used for voice
communication.
Packet Switching:
 Using the TCP protocol a single large message is divided into
a sequence of packets of size limits from 128 to 4096 bytes.
 Each packet is independent and has the address of sender
and destination.
 The IP (Internet protocol) does the routing for the packets.
It keeps track of all the different routes available to the
destination. If one route is not available it finds the alternate
route to the destination.
 At the destination, the TCP protocol re-assembles the
packets into the complete message.
 If any packets are lost or damaged, a request is sent to
retransmit the same message.
Communication terminologies:
Communication Channel (Transmission media): Is a medium through which a message is transmitted to its
intended destination. Communication channel can be wired (Guided) or Wireless (Unguided).
COMPUTER SCIENCE
CLASS XII (2017-18)
UNIT 5: COMMUNICATION AND NETWORK CONCCEPT
Page 2 of 14
Bandwidth: Is a range of frequencies within a given band that is used for transmitting an analog signal.
Bandwidth is expressed in Hz, KHz, and MHz
Data transfer rate: DTR is the amount of data in digital form that is moved from one place to another in a
given time on a network. Data rates are often measured in megabits (million bits) or megabytes (million
bytes) per second.
bps bits per second Bps bytes per second
Kbps kilobits per second KBps kilo bytes per second
Mbps megabits per second MBps megabytes per second
Gbps giga bits per second GBps giga bytes per second
Tbps tera bits per second TBps tera bytes per second
Wired Media (Guided media)
Twisted pair cable Co-axial Cables Optical fiber
It consists of two identical 1 mm
thick copper wires insulated and
twisted together. The twisted pair
cables are twisted in order to
reduce crosstalk and
electromagnetic induction
It consists of a solid wire core
surrounded by one or more foil or
braided wire shields, each separated
from the other by some kind of plastic
insulator. It is mostly used in the cable
wires.
An optical fiber consists of thin glass
fibers that can carry information in
the form of visible light.
Very Inexpensive Expensive than twisted pair cables. Very Expensive as compared to
other guided media.
Easy to install and maintain Difficult to manage and reconfigure. Need special care and training
while installation
Attenuation is very high.
It is incapable to carry a signal over
long distances (only 100m) without
the use of repeaters.
Attenuation is low. Data transmission
rate is better than twisted pair cables.
Carries signal up to 150m to 500 m
Attenuation is very low. Transmit
data over very long distance with
high security.
Due to low bandwidth, these are
unsuitable for broadband
applications
Moderate bandwidth
It provides a cheap means of
transporting multi-channel television
signals around metropolitan areas.
Very High Bandwidth is up to 10
Gbps. Data transmission speed is
very high.
Low noise immunity. Susceptible
to electromagnetic interference
Higher noise immunity than twisted
pair. Less Susceptible to
electromagnetic interference
Immune to noise as light rays are
unaffected by electrical noise. Not
Susceptible to electromagnetic
interference.
Ethernet cable : It is also called a Cat 5 cable, is used to connect devices together within a local area network,
it consists of 4 pairs ( 8 wires) of unshielded twisted pair cable and delivers data transmission rate of 1 Gbps.
Two pairs (Green and Orange) are used for transmitting and receiving packets respectively while the other
Two pairs (Blue and Brown) are used in VoIP and PoC (Push to Talk over Cellular)
COMPUTER SCIENCE
CLASS XII (2017-18)
UNIT 5: COMMUNICATION AND NETWORK CONCCEPT
Page 3 of 14
Wireless Media (Unguided media)
Infrared Wave
Transmission
Radio Wave Transmission Micro Wave Transmission Satellite Link
Short Range
Communication: Infrared
waves can travel from a
few centimetres to several
meters.(Approx. 5m )
Long Range
Communication : Radio
waves can cover distances
ranging from a few meters
(in walkie-talkies) up to
covering an entire city
Long Range
Communication
Microwave signals travel
at a higher frequency than
radio waves and are used
for transmitting data over
several miles or
kilometres.
Very Long Range
Communication : Satellite
is a relay station in orbit
above the earth that
receive from one end of
earth (uplink)
regenerates, and redirects
signals to other end of
earth (downlink).
Line of Sight Propagation:
Infrared uses point to
point communication,
both transmitter and
receiver should be placed
in line of sight of each
other and there should not
be any obstacle inbetween.
Omnidirectional: Radio
waves are propagated in
all directions. Therefore
sending and receiving
antennas do not have to
be aligned. Radio waves
can easily bend along
mountains and reach
valleys.
Line of Sight Propagation:
Microwaves towers
transmitting and receiving
antennas need to be
properly aligned.
Line of Sight Propagation
Since microwave signals
cannot bend around the
curvature of earth.
Satellite act as a relay
between the transmitting
earth stations covering the
entire surface of earth
Cannot Penetrate Solid
Objects : Infrared waves
can propagate throughout
a room but could not cross
the walls of the room, so
that the remote does not
interfere with appliances
in other room
Penetrates Solid Objects:
Radio receivers can catch
the signal inside buildings
also. Thus it can be used
for both indoor and
outdoor communication
Cannot Penetrate Solid
Objects: High towers are
built and microwave
antennas are put on their
tops so that signal does
not get blocked by
building structures
Cannot Penetrate Solid
Objects: Signals can get
blocked by solid material
or objects such as rocks,
wood or solid building
structures
Inexpensive mode of
communication:
Infrared communication is
a common, inexpensive,
and easy to use wireless
communication
technology.
Inexpensive mode of
communication
Radio waves are the most
economical way
of communicating. It is
cheaper than laying cables
and fibres.
Very Expensive mode of
communication: Signals
become weak after
travelling as it gets
absorbed by atmosphere.
So repeaters are used at
regular intervals (25-30
km). Towers are expensive
to build.
Very Expensive: Placing
the satellite into orbit
involves very high cost.
Installation is extremely
complex. But, satellite
communication is very
economical keeping in
mind the fact that the
area covered quite large.
Secure : At a time only two
devices can communicate
therefore information
passed to one device is not
leaked to another device
Insecure: Radio wave
communication is insecure
communication.
Insecure: Microwave
communication is an
insecure communication.
Multiple channels are
available. It can carry
25000 voice channels at
the same time.
Insecure: Signals sent to a
satellite are broadcasted
to all receivers, so
necessary security
measures have to be
taken to prevent
tampering of data.
COMPUTER SCIENCE
CLASS XII (2017-18)
UNIT 5: COMMUNICATION AND NETWORK CONCCEPT
Page 4 of 14
Network devices:
Modem (MOdulator DEModulator) is an electronic device which converts digital
signals into analog signals for transmission over telephone lines (Modulation). At
the receiving end, a modem performs the reverse function and converts analog
signal into digital form (Demodulation) A modem can also amplify a signal so that
it can travel a long distance without attenuation.
RJ-45 (Registered Jack – 45) is an eight wired connector that is used to connect
computers on a local area network (LAN), especially Ethernet.
Ethernet card is a kind of network adapter and is also known as Network Interface
Card (NIC). These adapters support the Ethernet standard for high-speed network
connections via cables. An Ethernet Card contains connections for either coaxial
or twisted pair cables or fiber optic cable
Switch/Hub is an electronic device that connects several nodes to form a network
and redirects the received information to the destination. It has ports into which
the cables from individual computers' NICs are inserted.
Switch is an intelligent hub redirects the received information only to the
intended node(s).
Hub broadcasts the information all the connected nodes
Repeater When the data is transmitted over a network for long distances, the
data signal gets weak due to attenuation. A repeater regenerates the received
signal and re-transmits it to its destination.
Could not be used for long
and difficult terrains
Communication over
difficult terrains: Since no
cables are to be laid down
and no digging is to be
done, it offers ease of
communication over
difficult terrains like hilly
areas.
Communication over
difficult terrains: Since no
cables are to be laid down
and no digging is to be
done so it offers ease of
communication over
difficult terrains like hilly
areas.
No restrictions of difficult
terrains such as natural
mountains, tall building,
towers etc.
Not Susceptible To
Weather Conditions
Susceptible To Weather :
Radio wave propagation is
susceptible to weather
effects like rains, thunder
storms etc.
Susceptible To Weather:
Microwave propagation is
susceptible to weather
effects like rains, thunder
storms etc.
Susceptible To Weather
Transmission is affected by
weather conditions like
rain, thunderstorm etc.
USES: TV remotes,
Cordless mouse, and
Intrusion detectors,
automotive garage doors,
wireless speakers etc.
USES: Cordless phones,
AM and FM radio
broadcast, Garage door
openers etc.
USES: It is used for long
distance telephonic
communications.
USES: Communicate
anywhere in the world 
COMPUTER SCIENCE
CLASS XII (2017-18)
UNIT 5: COMMUNICATION AND NETWORK CONCCEPT
Page 5 of 14
Router is a network device used to establish connection between two similar networks. They can connect networks
with different architectures such as Token Ring and Ethernet. But, routers cannot transform information from one
data format to another such as TCP/IP to IPX/SPX.
Gateway is a device, which is used to connect dissimilar networks and perform the necessary translation so that
the connected networks can communicate properly. A gateway can translate information between different
network data formats and network architectures. It can translate TCP/IP to AppleTalk so computers supporting
TCP/IP can communicate with Apple brand computers.
Wi-Fi cards are small and portable cards that allow your computer to connect to the internet through a wireless
network. Wi-Fi transmission is through the radio waves, these signals are picked up by Wi-Fi receivers such as
computers and cell phones equipped with Wi-Fi cards. The devices need to be within the range of a Wi-Fi network
to receive the signals and produces a wireless internet connection. Once a connection is established between user
and the network, the user is prompted with a login screen and password for establishing is a secure connection.
Wi-Fi cards can be external or internal. If a Wi-Fi card is not installed inside your computer, you may purchase an
external USB antenna attachment and connect it to your device. Many computers and mobile devices are now a
days equipped with wireless networking capability and do not require a Wi-Fi card.
Network Topologies
It refers to the geometrical arrangement of nodes in a (LAN). The criteria for choosing a topology: Installation
cost, Reliability, Flexibility, Fault detection etc.
Bus Topology Star Topology Tree Topology
In bus topology all the nodes are connected
to a main cable called backbone.
If any node has to send some information to
any other node, it sends the signal to the
backbone.
The signal travels through the entire length
of the backbone and is received by the
node for which it is intended.
A small device called terminator is attached
at each end of the backbone. When the
signal reaches the end of backbone, it is
absorbed by the terminator and the
backbone gets free to carry another signal.
This prevents the reflection of signal back on
the cable and hence eliminates the chances
of signal interference.
In star topology each node is directly
connected to a hub/switch.
If any node has to send some information to
any other node, it sends the signal to the
hub/switch.
In the case of a switch the signal is sent
directly to the intended node(s). In case of a
hub this signal is broadcast to all the nodes
but is accepted by the intended node(s).
Tree topology is a
combination of bus and
star topologies. It is used
to combine multiple star
topology networks. All the
stars are connected
together like a bus. This
bus-star hybrid approach
supports future
expandability of the
network
COMPUTER SCIENCE
CLASS XII (2017-18)
UNIT 5: COMMUNICATION AND NETWORK CONCCEPT
Page 6 of 14
Characteristics of Bus topology:
 Linear architecture is easy to install.
Additional nodes can be easily connected
to the existing bus network at any point
along the length of the backbone cable
 Requires less cable length and hence it is
less costly: All the nodes are connected
through drop cables to the main backbone
cable.
 Fault diagnosis and isolation is difficult in
Bus Topology. If a node is faulty on the
bus, detection of fault may have to be
performed at many points on the network.
 Backbone cable or terminator fault leads
to failure of entire network: But failure of
one node does not affect the network.
Characteristics of Star topology:
 Easy to install and easy to expand
Additional nodes can be easily connected
to the existing star network according to
the specifications of central hub/switch
 Requires more cable length hence it is
more costly than Bus: Every node is
directly connected to the central
hub/switch.
 Fault diagnosis and isolation is easy in
Star topology. Failure of a node involves
disconnecting the node from otherwise
functional network.
 Hub or switch fault leads to failure of
entire network: But, failure of one node
does not affect the network.
Characteristics of Tree
topology:
 It offers easy way of
network expansion
 Even if one network
(star) fails, the other
networks remains
connected and working.
Network Types:
PAN (Personal Area
Network):
LAN (Local Area Network): MAN (Metropolitan Area
Network):
WAN (Wide Area
Network):
Spread in the proximity of
an individual
Spread across a room,
building, or campus
Spread within a city Spread across a city,
country, or continent.
Cover an area of a few
meters radius.
Cover an area of a few
meters to a few kilometres
radius.
Cover an area of a few
kilometres to a few
hundred kilometres radius
Cover an area of over
hundreds of kilometres
radius.
Set up using guided media
(USB cable) or unguided
media (Bluetooth,
Infrared).
Set up using wired media
(UTP cables, Co-axial cables
etc.) or wireless media (
Infrared, radio waves) i.e.
WLAN (wireless LAN)
Set up using all types of all
guided and unguided media
Set up using all types of all
guided and unguided
media
Owned, controlled, and
managed by a single
person
Owned, controlled, and
managed by a single person
or organization.
Owned and operated by a
government body or a large
corporation
Not owned by anyone,
WANs is interconnected
computers, LANs, MANs,
and maybe other WANs.
Examples: A network of
devices such as computer,
Phone, MP3/MP4 Player,
Camera etc. Transferring
songs from one cell phone
to another is a PAN of two
phones. Transferring files
from a PC to an MP3 player
is a PAN between the two.
Examples: A networked
office building, school or
home. Sometimes one
building can contain a few
small LANs (Like some
schools have independent
LANs in each computer lab.).
Examples: A network of
schools, or banks, or
Government offices etc.
within a city. A MAN is
usually formed by
interconnecting a number of
LANs and individual
computers.
Examples: A network of
ATMs, BANKs, National
Government Offices,
International
Organizations' Offices etc.,
spread over a country,
continent, or covering
many continents.
COMPUTER SCIENCE
CLASS XII (2017-18)
UNIT 5: COMMUNICATION AND NETWORK CONCCEPT
Page 7 of 14
Network Protocol
A protocol is the special set of rules that two or more machines on a network follow to communicate with
each other. Some of the important protocols used are as follows:
TCP/IP (Transmission Control Protocol / Internet Protocol): Communication between two computers on
internet is done using TCP/IP protocol. TCP/IP is a two-layer protocol.
 Using the TCP protocol a single large message is divided into a sequence of packets of size limits from
128 to 4096 bytes.
 Each packet is independent and has the address of sender and destination.
 The IP (Internet protocol) does the routing for the packets. It keeps track of all the different routes
available to the destination. If one route is not available it finds the alternate route to the destination.
 At the destination, the TCP protocol re-assembles the packets into the complete message.
 If any packets are lost or damaged, a request is sent to retransmit the same message.
FTP (File Transfer Protocol)
The File Transfer Protocol (FTP) is a standard network protocol used for the transfer of computer files from a
server to a client using the Client–server model on a computer network. The objectives of FTP are:
 To promote sharing of files (computer programs and/or data).
 To encourage indirect or implicit use of remote computers.
 To shield a user from variations in file storage systems among different hosts.
 To transfer data reliably, and efficiently.
PPP (Point to Point Protocol): In computer networking, Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) is a data link protocol
used to establish a direct connection between two nodes. The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) is an
encapsulation protocol for transporting IP traffic across point-to-point links. PPP is used over many types of
physical networks including serial cable, phone line, trunk line, cellular telephone, radio links, and fibre optic
links etc.
Electronic mail protocols
Simple Mail Transfer protocol (SMTP): Simple Mail Transfer Protocol, a protocol for sending e-mail messages
between servers. Most e-mail systems that send mail over the Internet use SMTP to send messages from one
server to another; In addition, SMTP is generally used to send messages from a mail client to a mail server.
The messages can then be retrieved with an e-mail client using either POP or IMAP. This is why you need to
specify both the POP or IMAP server and the SMTP server when you configure your e-mail application.
ESMTP (Extended Simple Mail Transfer Protocol) specifies extensions to the original SMTP protocol for
sending e-mail that supports graphics, audio and video files, and text in various national languages.
MIME (Multi-Purpose Internet Mail Extensions) is an extension of the original Internet e-mail protocol that
lets people use the protocol to exchange different kinds of data files on the Internet: audio, video, images,
application programs, and other kinds, as well as the ASCII text handled in the original protocol, the Simple
Mail Transport Protocol (SMTP).
Post Office Protocol Version 3 (POP3): POP3 is a client/server protocol used for opening the remote e-mail
boxes, the POP3 mail server receives e-mails, filters and holds them into the appropriate user folders. When
a user connects to the mail server to retrieve his mail, the messages are downloaded from mail server to the
user's hard disk.
Remote Access Protocol (Telnet) : This protocol helps a user (Telnet Client) to log in at a remote computer
(Telnet Server) and function as if he/she were connected directly to that computer. Telnet is the main internet
protocol for creating a connection with a remote machine. It allows you to connect to remote computers
(called remote hosts) over a TCP/IP network (such as the Internet). Once your telnet client establishes a
connection to the remote host, your client becomes a virtual terminal, allowing you to communicate with the
remote host from your computer with whatever privileges you may have been granted to the specific
application and data on that host computer.
COMPUTER SCIENCE
CLASS XII (2017-18)
UNIT 5: COMMUNICATION AND NETWORK CONCCEPT
Page 8 of 14
Wireless/Mobile Communication protocol
GSM: (Global System for Mobile communication): is a digital mobile telephony system that is widely used in
Europe and other parts of the world. GSM) is a second generation (2G) standard for mobile networks. The
GSM standard has given birth to wireless services like General Packet Radio Service (GPRS) and Enhanced Data
Rates for GSM Evolution (EDGE). GSM uses a variation of time division multiple access (TDMA) and is the most
widely used telephony technology.
TDMA (Time division Multiple Access): It allows several users to share the same frequency channel by
dividing the signal into different time slots. The users transmit in rapid succession, one after the other, each
using its own time slot. For example, the radio frequency say 890 MHz is shared by different users in time. This
means if user A, B, C and D all talk at the same time. You assign the 890 MHz frequency to A for some time and
allow him to talk, then you assign 890 band to B for some time to speak, then to C , and finally to D, before
coming back to A. So the process continues in a round robin fashion, as long as A, B, C, and D want to talk. This
way many users talk at same time on the same frequency.
CDMA (Code Division Multiple Access): Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) is a multiple access technology
whereby a number of users share the same frequency channel at the same time. Every channel uses the full
available spectrum. Individual conversations are encoded with a pseudo-random digital sequence. Every
communicator will be allocated the entire spectrum all the time. Each user’s signal is spread over the entire
bandwidth by a unique spreading code. At the receiver end, that same unique code is used to receive the
signal. CDMA consistently provides better capacity for voice and data communications; it is the common
platform on which 3G technologies are built.
GPRS (General Packet Radio Service): is a packet oriented mobile data service on the 2G and 3G GSM
communications. GPRS usage is typically charged based on volume of data transferred.
WLL (Wireless Local Loop): Wireless local loop (WLL), is the use of a wireless communications link for delivering
telephone service (POTS) or Internet access (broadband) to telecommunications customers. This system is
based on radio networks which provide services like telephone in remote areas. Different types of wireless local
loop include Broadband Wireless Access, Radio in the Loop, Fixed Radio Access and Fixed Wireless Access.
Microwave frequencies are used to provide wireless broadband connection. The local loop can be referred as
"last mile" of the telecom network which resides between Central office (CO) and user's location.
Generations of Mobile technology:
 1G technology was used in the first mobile phones. 1G used analog radio signals. 1G was introduced in
1980s
 2G technology was introduced in 1992. 2G technology used a digital format and introduced text
messaging. 2G also introduced data services for mobiles, starting with SMS.
 3G technology has introduced more efficient ways of carrying data, making it possible to have faster webservices, live chat, fast downloading, video conferencing etc. over mobile phones. Today we are living in
the world of 3G.
 4G technology unlike previous generations of mobile technology, 4G mobile technology will be used for
internet access on computers also, and it will be totally wireless. 4G will provide internet access, high
quality streaming video and "anytime, anywhere" voice and data transmission at a much faster speed
than 3G. The "anytime, anywhere" feature of 4G is also referred to as "MAGIC" (Mobile multimedia;
Anytime/anywhere; Global mobility support; Integrated wireless solution; Customized personal services).
COMPUTER SCIENCE
CLASS XII (2017-18)
UNIT 5: COMMUNICATION AND NETWORK CONCCEPT
Page 9 of 14
Mobile processors: mobile processor is found in mobile computers and cellphones.
 A CPU chip is designed which is typically housed in a smaller chip package.
 In order to run cooler, it uses lower voltages than its desktop counterpart and has more "sleep mode"
capability.
 A mobile processor can be throttled down to different power levels or sections of the chip can be turned off
entirely when not in use.
 Further, the clock frequency may be stepped down under low processor loads. This stepping down
conserves power and prolongs battery life.
 Initially mobile processor was Single core, and then came Dual core; we now have Quad core, Hexa core and
even Octa core.
 Most processors are 64 bit now as against 32 bit when it started initially.
 The processing speed has reached up to 3.0 -3.5 GHz.
 The ability to include GPU (Graphic Processing Unit) inside mobile processors has enabled devices to churn
out the best graphics picture, 3D capability, Virtual Reality capability and 4k recording.
 Some latest mobile processors are: Qualcomm Snapdragon, Texas Instruments OMAP, Nvidia Tegra 2,
Samsung Hummingbird
Chat Protocol and VOIP
Chatting
A real time informal communication over the Internet is chatting. A chat program is software which is
required for chatting over the internet. AOL Instant Messenger, Campfire, Internet Messenger, MSN
Messenger are some commonly used chat programs. In order to chat, the user should have an account on a
chatting program. A phone call is a voice based chat while online chat is textual conversation.
VOIP: Voice over Internet Protocol (Voice over IP, VoIP and IP telephony) is a group of technologies for the
delivery of voice communications and multimedia sessions over Internet. The terms Internet telephony,
broadband telephony, and broadband phone service specifically refer to the provisioning of communications
services (voice, fax, SMS, voice-messaging) over the public Internet, rather than via the public switched
telephone network (PSTN). This method of making phone calls is much cheaper than convectional way because
the service of Telecommunication Company is not used.
Wi-Fi Wireless Fidelity is a brand, originally licensed by the Wi-Fi Alliance to describe the underlying technology
of wireless local area networks (WLAN) that uses radio waves to provide wireless high-speed Internet and
network connections. A person with a Wi-Fi device can connect to the internet or Local area network using an
access point, provided that the device should be in the range of that Wireless access point. Wi-Fi networks have
no physical wired connection between sender and receiver and transmit by using radio frequency (RF)
technology. When an RF current is supplied to an antenna, an electromagnetic field is created that then is able to
propagate through space. A computer utilizes a wireless adapter to translate data transmitted by radio waves.
WiMAX (Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access) is a wireless industry coalition dedicated to the
advancement of broadband wireless access (BWA) networks. WiMAX is one of the hottest broadband wireless
technologies around today. WiMAX systems are expected to deliver broadband access services to residential and
enterprise customers in an economical way.
Network Security Concepts: Network security deals with policies adopted by network administrator to protect
the network from unauthorized access and misuse of network resources. It also ensures that the authorized
users have adequate access to all the network resources.
COMPUTER SCIENCE
CLASS XII (2017-18)
UNIT 5: COMMUNICATION AND NETWORK CONCCEPT
Page 10 of 14
Virus Worm Trojan
A virus is a self-replicating
malicious piece of code that
attaches itself to other host
programs and gain control over
the system without the owner's
knowledge.
A worm is a self-replicating piece
of code that uses security holes in a
computer networks to copy itself to
the new machine and then starts
replicating from there as well. It
does not need to attach itself to a
host program.
A Trojan horse is a non-selfreplicating a program that
contains hidden malicious
functions.
It requires human interaction to
propagate The virus gets
executed each time the host
program is executed.
It does not require human
interaction; a worm works by itself
as an independent object and
copies itself hundreds or thousands
of time.
It tricks users into installing them
disguised as useful program. Once
installed on a system, they reveal
their true nature and cause
damage
They could produce annoying
effects like changing desktop,
adding silly icons etc.
They could consume the entire
memory or bandwidth and clog
the network traffic.
They could steal confidential
information and can open a
backdoor. Trojan horses contact a
central server and report back
information such as passwords,
user IDs, and captured keystrokes.
They can spread through
external media such as CDs,
browsing infected internet sites
and from email attachments.
Spreads itself to other computer
networks through mail or address
book.
Spread through internet browsing.
Types of Viruses
 File Virus: These viruses infect and replicate when it gets attached to executable program files with
extensions .COM, .EXE .SYS, .DLL, .OCX, .CPL, and .SCR.
 Boot sector virus: These viruses infect the boot sector of hard drives. The master boot record is part
of the boot sector that contains an executable that knows where the files to start the operating
system are located on the hard drive. Boot sector viruses attach themselves to the master boot
record and are executed every time the computer boots up.
 Macro virus: Viruses that infect document files are called macro viruses. They only infect documents
that support macros. Microsoft Office, WordPerfect Office, StarOffice, and AutoCAD are common
applications that support macros in their documents. When the virus attaches itself to the document,
it must make sure that the macro will be run so its code can be executed. Viruses ensure this occurs
by attaching themselves to common subroutines that are run every time a document is opened or
closed.
Spam: Repetition of worthless text in the form of messages or mails is known as Spam. Most spam is
commercial advertising. In addition to wasting people's time, spam also eats up a lot of network bandwidth.
Cookies: When the user browses a website, the web server sends a small text file to the web browser known
as a cookie. Generally a cookie contains the name of the website from which it has come from and a unique ID
tag. Some cookies are stored on your hard drive until you delete them or they reach their expiry date. These
may be used to remember your preferences when you use the website. While, some cookies last only until
the browser is closed are not stored on your hard drive. They are usually used to track the pages that you visit
so that information can be customized for you for that visit.
Firewall: A firewall is hardware or software based network security system. It prevents unauthorized access
to or from a network. All inbound data entering the network or outbound traffic leaving the network pass
through the firewall, which examines each packet and blocks those that do not meet the specified security
criteria. Firewalls are used to prevent unauthorized internet users (hackers, virus/worms) to access private
networks connected to the Internet.
COMPUTER SCIENCE
CLASS XII (2017-18)
UNIT 5: COMMUNICATION AND NETWORK CONCCEPT
Page 11 of 14
Https: Hyper Text Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPS) is the secure version of HTTP, the protocol over which
data is sent between your browser and the website that you are connected to. The 'S' at the end
of HTTPS stands for 'Secure'. It means all communications between your browser and the website are
encrypted.
India IT Act: The Information Technology Act, 2000 (also known as ITA-2000, or the IT Act) is an Act of the
Indian Parliament (No 21 of 2000) notified on 17 October 2000. It is the primary law in India dealing with
cybercrime and electronic commerce. The laws apply to the whole of India. Persons of other nationalities can
also be indicted under the law, if the crime involves a computer or network located in India. The Act provides
legal framework for electronic governance by giving recognition to electronic records and digital signatures.
The above Act was further amended in the form of IT Amendment Act, 2008 [ITAA-2008]. Some of the
offenses and penalties are listed below:
Section Offence Penalty
65 Tampering with computer source
documents
Imprisonment up to three years, or/and with
fine up to ₹200,000
66 Hacking with computer system Imprisonment up to three years, or/and with
fine up to ₹500,000
66F Acts of cyber terrorism Imprisonment up to life.
67 Publishing information which is obscene in
electronic form.
Imprisonment up to five years, or/and with
fine up to ₹1,000,000
70 Securing access or attempting to secure
access to a protected system
Imprisonment up to ten years, or/and with
fine.
Cyber Law: Cyber law or Internet law is a term that encapsulates the legal issues related to use of the Internet.
It is less a distinct field of law than intellectual property or contract law, as it is a domain covering many areas of
law and regulation. Some leading topics include internet access and usage, privacy, freedom of expression, and
jurisdiction.
Cyber Crime: In Simple way we can say that cyber-crime is unlawful acts wherein the computer is either a tool
or a target or both. Cyber-crimes can involve criminal activities that are traditional in nature, such as theft, fraud,
forgery, defamation and mischief, all of which are subject to the Indian Penal Code.
We can categorize Cyber-crimes in two ways
1. The Computer as a Target:-using a computer to attack other computers. E.g. Unauthorized access and
Hacking, Trojan/Virus/Worm attacks, Email spoofing, Email Spamming, Email bombing, DoS- Denial of
Service attacks etc.
2. The Computer as a weapon:-using a computer to commit real world crimes. E.g. Cyber Terrorism, IPR
violations, Credit card frauds, EFT frauds, Pornography, Cyber Stacking etc.
Intellectual property rights (IPR) Issues: Intellectual property rights are the rights given to an individual over
the invention of their own. They usually give the creator an exclusive right over the use of his/her creation for
a certain period of time.
There are only three ways to protect intellectual property
1. Patents: A Patent is a term used for a specific product designed by an individual. The designer is given
exclusive rights over the patent for a limited period of time. With help of the patent right, the owner can
stop others from making, using or selling the product design. The owner can take a legal action if someone
uses the patent without his/ her permission
2. Trademarks: Trademark can be defined as a name or a different sign or a device identifying a product or a
service provided by a person or a company. A Trademark is also known as brand name. It should be
officially registered and legally restricted to use of the specific person or the company.
3. Copyrights: Copyright is the term used for a written document. A legal action can be taken, if copyrights are
violated.
Hacking: Hacking is unauthorized intrusion into a computer or a network. The person engaged in hacking
activities is generally referred to as a hacker. This hacker may alter system or security features to accomplish a
goal that differs from the original purpose.
COMPUTER SCIENCE
CLASS XII (2017-18)
UNIT 5: COMMUNICATION AND NETWORK CONCCEPT
Page 12 of 14
A hacker (white hat) accesses the computer without
the intention of destroying data or maliciously
harming the computer. White hat is known as ethical
hacker
 A cracker (black hat) gain unauthorized access to a
computer with the intention to cause damage.
Black hat is a hacker who violates computer
security for maliciousness or for personal gain
Introduction to Web Services
WWW (World Wide Web): WWW is a network of web servers. It can be defined as a hypertext information
retrieval system on the Internet. It is the universe of the information available on the internet. All the web
pages on WWW use HTTP for making hypertext jumps.
HTML (Hypertext Markup Language)
 HTML is a markup language to create and design
web content.
 It is used to display the data in formatted manner.
 It has a variety of predefined tags and attributes
for defining the layout and structure of the web
document.
 HTML is not case sensitive
 A HTML document has the extension .htm or
.html.
 HTML documents have a head and body.
<html>
<head>………………
</head>
<body>………………
</body>
</html>
XML (eXtensible Markup Language)
 XML is a markup language that is selfdescriptive.
 It is used to carry, store or exchange data.
 It does not have predefined tags. It is possible
to define new tags in XML. It allows the
programmer to use customized tags.
 XML is case sensitive.
 A HTML document has the extension .xml
 XML documents form a tree structure.
<root>
<child>
<subchild>.....
</subchild>
</child>
</root>
HTTP is the protocol that is used for transferring hypertext (text, graphic, image, sound, video etc.) between
two computers and is particularly used on the World Wide Web. It is a TCP/IP based communication protocol
and provides a standard for Web browsers and servers to communicate. HTTP is based on Client/Server
principle. Communication between the host and the client occurs through a request/response pair. A
connection is established between two computers - out of which one is client (generally the browser) that
initiates the request and the other is the server that responds to the request. Also HTTP identifies the resource
that the client has requested for and informs the server about the action to be taken. When the user clicks on
the hypertext link, the client program on their computer uses HTTP to contact the server, identify the resource
and ask the server to respond with an action. The server accepts the request and then uses HTTP to respond
to perform the action.
Domain Names: Every computer on the network has a unique numeric address assigned to it which is a
combination of four numbers from 0-255 separated by a dot. For example, 59.177.134.72 since it is practically
impossible for a person to remember the IP addresses. A system has been developed which assigns domain
names to web servers and maintains a database of these names and corresponding IP addresses on DNS
(Domain Name Service) server.
Examples of some domain names are cbse.nic.in, indianrailway.gov.in etc. A domain name usually has more
than one part for example, in the domain name www.cbse.nic.in
 in is the primary domain name
 nic is the sub-domain of in
 cbse is the sub-domain of nic
 www indicates the server is on world wide web
COMPUTER SCIENCE
CLASS XII (2017-18)
UNIT 5: COMMUNICATION AND NETWORK CONCCEPT
Page 13 of 14

Top level domains are further divided into two categories:
Generic Domain Names:
·com - commercial business
·edu - Educational institutions
·gov - Government agencies
·mil - Military
·net - Network organizations
·org - Organizations (non-profit
Country Specific Domain Names:
.in - India
·au - Australia
·ca - Canada
.ch - China
.nz - New Zealand
.pk - Pakistan
.jp - Japan
.us - United States of America
URL (Uniform resource locator): A URL is a formatted text string used to identify a network resource on the
Internet. Network resources can be plain Web pages, text documents, graphics, downloadable files, services
or programs. Every network resource on the web has a unique URL in the following format:
Protocol: // domain name /path / file name
The URL text string consists of three parts:
 Network Protocol: The network protocol identifies the protocol to be used to access the network
resource. These strings are short names followed by the three characters ': //’. Some examples of
protocols include http, gopher, ftp and mailto.
 Domain name: It identifies the host/server that holds the resource. For example: www. School.com is
a domain name.
 Resource Location: It consists of the path or directory and the file name of resource. For example in
the URL : http://www.school.com/syllabus/preprimary/nursery.htm the file nursery.htm is stored in
the sub directory preprimary, of the directory syllabus on the server www.school.com
Website: Related webpages from a single web domain is termed as a website. A website has multiple
webpages providing information about a particular entity.
Web browser: Web browser is software program to navigate the web pages on the internet. A bowser
interprets the coding language of the web page and displays it in graphic form. Internet works on client -server
model. A web browser is a client which requests the information from the web server. The web server sends
the information back to the client. Some of the web browsers are: Netscape Navigator, Internet Explorer,
Mozilla Firefox etc.
Web Server: A Web server is a computer or a group of computers that stores web pages on the internet. It
works on client/server model. It delivers the requested web page to web browser. Web servers use special
programs such as Apache or IIS to deliver web pages over the http protocol.
Each server has a unique IP address and domain name. In order to access a webpage, the user writes the URL
of the site on the address bar of the browser. The machine on which the browser is running sends a request to
the IP address of the machine running the web server for that page. Once the web server receives that
request, it sends the page content back to the IP address of the computer asking for it. The web browser then
translates that content into all of the text, pictures, links, videos, etc. A single web server may support multiple
websites or a single website may be hosted on several linked servers.
Web hosting: Web hosting is the process of uploading/saving the web content on a web server to make it
available on WWW. In case an individual or a company wants to make its website available on the internet, it
should be hosted on a web server.
Web page: Web page is an electronic document designed using HTML. It displays information in textual or
graphical form. It may also contain downloadable data files, audio files or video files. Traversal from one
webpage to another web page is possible through hyperlinks. A web page can be classified into two types:
COMPUTER SCIENCE
CLASS XII (2017-18)
UNIT 5: COMMUNICATION AND NETWORK CONCCEPT
Page 14 of 14
Static web page: A web page which displays same
kind of information whenever a user visits it is
known as a static web page. A static web page
generally has .htm or .html as extension
Dynamic web page: An interactive web page is a
dynamic webpage. A dynamic web page uses scripting
languages to display changing content on the web
page. Such a page generally has .php, .asp or .jsp as
extension.
Scripting language: It is a programming language which can be embedded or integrated with other languages.
Some of the most widely used scripting languages are JavaScript, VBScript, PHP, Perl, Python, Ruby, and ASP.
They have been used extensively to create dynamic web pages.
Dynamic web pages support two types of scripting:
Client-Side Scripting: On some web pages the
contents change in response to an action done by
the user, for example a click from the mouse or a key
press from a keyboard action. Such pages use clientside scripting. In this technology, the content is
generated on the user's local computer. VB Script and
Java Script are examples of client-side scripting
languages.
Server-Side Scripting: Some web pages use
applications running on the server to generate the
web content. Such pages use server-side scripting
language. Web page display the current time and
date, forums, submission forms, shopping carts etc.,
use server-side scripting. ASPS, JSP, PHP are
examples of server-side scripting languages.
Web 2.0: Web 2.0 refers to new generation of dynamic and interactive websites. Web 2.0 websites uses a
new programming language called AJAX (Asynchronous JavaScript and XML). AJAX helps a dynamic website
connect to the web server and download small amount of data based on the interaction with the user. In this
technology only the part of the website which is updated is reloaded. The entire page does not get reloaded
each time. This helps in making the website interactive.
Applications supported by web 2.0 are as followings:
 blogging
 social bookmarking
 RSS (Really Simple Syndication)
 wikis and other collaborative applications
 interactive encyclopedias and dictionaries
 Advanced Gaming
E-commerce payment transactions: E-Commerce or Electronics Commerce sites use electronic payment where
electronic payment refers to paperless monetary transactions. Electronic payment has revolutionized the
business processing by reducing paper work, transaction costs, labour cost. Being user friendly and less time
consuming than manual processing it helps business organization to expand its market.
Online Banking: Online banking, also known as internet banking, e-banking or virtual banking, is an electronic
payment system that enables customers of a bank or other financial institution to conduct a range of financial
transactions through the financial institution's website
Mobile Banking: Mobile banking refers to the use of a smartphone or other cellular device to perform online
banking tasks while away from your home computer, such as monitoring account balances, transferring funds
between accounts, bill payment and locating an ATM.
Payment Apps and Services: Most mobile payment apps offer users reasonable, pay-as-you-go plans. This
requires users to pay a flat percentage of the total expenditure as a processing fee. Many of these apps also
allow the user to keep track of their payment and even print receipts of their transactions. Some mobile
payment apps are Google Wallet, PayPal, Paytm, Freecharge, Bhim and UPI (Unified Payment Interface) apps
etc.
